---
title:  Patreon + Kit
date:   2018-06-07 22:04:33
---

Last July, I joined [Kit](https://kit.com) to build products that enable creators to do what they do better. Earlier this week, [Kit was acquired](https://techcrunch.com/2018/06/05/patreon-merchandise/) by Patreon and I joined the Patreon team.

What still amazes me about Patreon are the mission and people. I know, I know: Everyone says this about their company. Everyone says their culture is the best or they are making the world a better place. Everyone says they have the best people working there. Few have one of these things. Even fewer have both.

<!--more-->

It's recursive. One feeds the other. Patreon's mission is good because it relies on external stakeholders—creators—just as much as they rely on Patreon. We'll call this *value for value*.[^1] If creators do well, Patreon and their employees do well, and vice versa. More creators join because Patreon empowers them to focus on what they do best, create! More people want to work at Patreon because they are compensated for helping to fund the emerging creative class.

I would extend this even further to: If creators do well, Patreon does well, and so does the Internet. Paying directly for value better aligns everyone in the creator/consumer relationship so no one gets the short end of the stick.[^2] People on the Web need to start recognizing and compensating value otherwise the gatekeepers become more and more entrenched.

We'll get to a point where this is the case, and I'm super excited to be a part of that.

[^1]: [Tyler Palmer's](https://twitter.com/tweetTSP) [Patreon culture deck](https://patreonhq.com/how-to-build-culture-that-lasts-dc25b086cefd) talks more about "value for value."

[^2]: [Internet ads](/blog/2017/12/03/internet-ads-im-not-so-sure/) being a pretty large short end of the stick.
